---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Learning Quickly and Efficiently
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-09-06
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - WOD
  - Javascript
---
# A New Language
  As a computer engineering major, I expected to learn various programming languages. I was a little nervous to learn a new language, because that would be a whole new set of functions and syntax to learn and remember. When I started doing the exercises in the first subsection of freecodecamp’s curriculum on JavaScript, [Introduction to JavaScript]( https://learn.freecodecamp.org/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript), I was relieved to see that it was very similar to a language I already know, C. 
  My knowledge of C enabled me to finish the basic JavaScript portion in a fraction of the expected time. There were similarities with operation symbols, basic operations with classes, and ways to deal with arrays. So far JavaScript seems like a simplified version of C. The main difference I have seen is that JavaScript is a lot more versatile and less strict with syntax. For example, in C one would have to specify the data type of a variable, but not in JavaScript. I think JavaScript is a great language, because there are syntax short cuts for less lines and it is versatile.
  
# Workout Of the Day (WOD)
  A WOD or workout of the day is a timed coding assignment meant to test us on the skill of the week. I am a little skeptic about this technique. I don’t like that the new “week” start on Fridays, therefore it seems like we will have to do most of the learning ourselves. Also, after a practice WOD is completed, the following tries are based on memorization and typing speed. Practice WODs won't help if the problem is completely different from the actual WOD.
  The idea of WODs are great, but it stresses me out that they are 40% of our grade, timed, and are graded as all or nothing.  Imagine always having syntax errors you can't find or fix for every WOD. I tend to stress under pressure, but I hope after this semester I have better problem solving skills and can debug my code quickly.

# Final Thoughts 
  Overall, I am excited to learn JavaScript and all the possibilities this language brings. WODs are going to stress me out every single day, even on weekends, but I know it will teach me programming skills I will need in the future.
